---
layout: post
author: thomas
title: Aista Magic Cloud Roadmap
---

Before I tell you our plans for the next 5 months, let me bring you down the memory lane in regards to what we've done
the last 7 months. Why the last 7 months you may ask? Because I quit my day job in June of 2021, so what we've done so
far should give you a nice pointer in regards to how much we'll be able to do over the next 5 months. Also realize that
until 1st of December I was literally alone, and we're now a team of 3 full time working developers pulling in the same
direction - So obviously things will be faster in the future than they were in the past.

## What we did in 7 months

* Finished Windows/LDAP authentication
* Finished SignalR socket message publishing upon invocations to CRUD endpoints
* Templates when creating new files in Hyper IDE
* Renaming files in Hyper IDE
* Adding more keyboard shortcuts for Hyper IDE
* Adding macro support for Hyper IDE
* Created a completely new frontend Angular template
* Adding Docker files and docker-compose.yml files to generated frontend  allowing you to deploy in seconds after generating your frontend
* Completely re-engineered the Bazar
* Added support for a whole range of different Content-Type payloads and responses to Magic core
* Allow for automatic uploading and downloading of images and files in the generated Angular frontend
* Implemented foreign key support for generated Angular frontend
* Left join of columns in the generated Angular frontend, allowing you to see a referenced field instead of _"customer_id"_ being a simple integer value
* Support for explicit nullable values in generated CRUD backend and Angular frontend
* Implemented extrapolated expressions
* Support for exception filters and interceptors
* Better authorisation support, allowing non-root users to be given access to components in the dashboard, and having the frontend automatically _only_ show these components accordingly
* Re-engineered the threading slots in Magic, implementing **[wait]**
* Support for custom JWT claims
* Improving the speed of HTTP invocations *significantly*, and extending the capabilities to include non-JSON types of payloads and responses
* Better cryptography features, allowing you to hash files and such, without loading these into memory
* The option of preserving comments when transforming between lambda and Hyperlambda, resulting in that generated CRUD backends now show comments among other things
* Faster (and cleaner) Hyperlambda parser
* Updating the backend to .Net 6
* Allowing for invoking HTTP endpoints directly from Hyper IDE, allowing you to never leave Hyper ide while developing
* Allowing for semantically transform between different types of payloads and responses, such as `multipart/form-data`, `application/json` and lambda
* Allowing to CRUD endpoints directly from Hyper IDE
* Implementing support for PostgreSQL databases
* Implementing support for ODBC slots, accessing _any_ ODBC enabled database from Magic (assuming you can somehow install its driver)
* Completely new file and folder system, allowing Magic to become possible to upgrade, without messing with dynamically created files and folders
* Implementing 100% stateless file system, allowing for storing files and folders in NoSQL database systems, resulting in that you can deploy Magic into a Kubernetes cluster if you wish, and load balance, while still having each pod execute the same Hyperlambda files, and accessing the same _"file system"_.
* Implemented support for **[neq]** slot, in addition to significantly simplifying usage of all other comparison slots, and conditional slots
* Significantly improved security in Magic, by creating a prohibited user not having write or execution rights to _anything_ outside of Magic itself
* NoSQL data adapters allowing you to use a Cassandra (CQL) compatible database such as Cassandra or Scylla
* Implemented support for logging into a CQL based database instead of into your Magic based RDBMS database
* Support for out of process NoSQL based caching through CQL
* Completely re-written 90% of the documentation related to Magic, its YouTube videos, and increased the quality of Magic's documentation by _at least_ one order of magnitude

All in all, we've created more than 50 releases the last 7 months. The reasons why this is important to understand,
is because it speaks about the project's _velocity_, implying it also speaks about how much ground you can assume we'll cover in the _next_ 5 months. This time of course with 3 full time developers, instead of only one.

## Roadmap

Almost every single feature in the above list was _not_ something I wanted myself, or something I did because I thought it was
cool, but most of the above features were in fact things our partners asked us for. Hence, we have no specific roadmap, since
it tends to crash with what our customers and partners wants from us, and we'd rather create what _you_ want than what
_we_ want. However, if you need something, we're never more than [one email](mailto:th@aista.com) away, and although I
hate to make promises, I tend to try my best to deliver that which others are asking us for, assuming they can formulate
their requests in such a way that I can transform their feature requests into code somehow. Hence, got a feature request?
Shoot [us an email](mailto:th@aista.com)!

However, when that's said we do have one giga feature we're building these days, which is an automatic onboarding
system, which is due to be released in mid June 2022, where people can register, and create cloudlets as much as
they see fit - At which point we'll be hosting your cloudlets, and you'll have a Magic server, finished setup and
configured, in _seconds_ after registering. Psst,
[another velocity pointer](https://github.com/gayanvoice/top-github-users/blob/main/markdown/public_contributions/cyprus.md). What I'm trying to get at here, is we're not sleeping, and if you need something from Magic, [please let us know](mailto:th@aista.com) - I can pretty much guarantee you it'll help ...

## Why I refuse to publish our (complete) roadmap?

A Norwegian guy once sold strawberries for his father. He was 5 years old, but couldn't sell a single strawberry, so
he went to his father whom he was selling strawberries for and asked for some _"better strawberries"_ saying to his father
the following thing.

> Dad, I can't see my strawberries. The other guys on the market has better berries, are selling their berries for less. I need some new strawberries

His father's answer was; _"Son, you have to sell the strawberries you've got"_. That Norwegian guy is a billionaire today 
because of listening to his father's advice. If you want future fata morgana stuff, by companies and people over promising
and under delivering, go for it. We'll sell the berries we've got ... ;)
